Hello everybody and welcome to pointers.
Your point is primer is going to be a bit of a theory lecture and then we'll dive into using it in the
next lecture.
So we've not really used them before so we want to prepare you for that because they're a little bit
different but similar to how we've used references before you'll see some similarities there.
However we've not covered them yet so the clue that you're using a pointer is basically when you see
a star or an asterisk next to a type.
Now remember the type could be a class it could be a struct.
Any of these user defined types are also valid.
Now this is not a star as in multiplication but when it's next to a type or a variable it's going to
be a pointer and we'll go through an example in a moment.
Now pointers are simply memory addresses.
So you have to follow that pointer to the object in question all the function in question to actually
do anything with it.
So why would you bother even using pointers.
Well the benefit is it saves you moving things around in memory much like references now so you've got
a huge objects or many objects a large building piece of a terrain any complex game object you don't
want to be moving that thing around and copying it from one place in memory to another.
So it saves you from doing that.
You're simply referring to things by reference rather than the actual value.
And you can point to pretty much any object.
Now there is a disadvantage here.
You can lose control of your data the moment that you've started using a pointer to something.
How about that there's another pointer to exactly the same thing.
Who's in control of that data.
You could lose track of the data.
You could lose track of the object itself.
So there are potential disadvantages but there are also plenty of ways of managing it as well okay.
So let's have a look at the pointer syntax.
Now this will be very familiar to you.
Now let's say we've got our type and it's a pointer and then the name of the pointer itself.
So much like a reference that asterisk can go in any place.
All of these three statements are equivalent.
Now we're going to use the first much like references in all cases name of pointer is a pointer.
I've known these things so they're quite obvious of course and in all cases the type of the object pointed
to is F Type.
Now it is important that the type match is the thing that you're pointing to.
It won't compile otherwise it'll throw up an error.
It's basically the compiler making sure you're being consistent and that when you get to that address
it is expecting to find something of the type on the left.
Now imagine we have an actor in our scene called some actor and obviously it is of type A actor.
So the actor star tells us that there's a pointer to an actor and the actor is called some actor.
Now the Actor class has a method or function called Get name which we will be using very soon.
Now if we use the star next to some actor by itself that will D reference the pointer.
Now what does the referencing mean basically going to that memory address and just using the value that
is there so as an example if you were to use the DOS operator we could write and it has to be in brackets
a star some actor don't get a name that would work absolutely fine.
However you can follow an access in one using the arrow which is just the dash followed by the right
Chevron which is the arrow operator.
So instead of typing star some actor in brackets don't get a name we can access the name of some actor
the arrow operator get name and we'll see this in action soon but basically use the arrow operator when
it's a pointer and the dot operator when it's not a pointer we'll get to that when we start talking
about getting an actors transform in a few lectures time so that's it for this point is primer and what
I would recommend is doing a bit of background reading on pointers as well as actually using them in
the upcoming lectures pointers and references are two of those things that are very simple but can really
confuse people as well so we'll take it step by step and we'll build upon knowledge and we'll keep coming
back around to pointers and reinforcing that knowledge of how to use them over in on real and I'll see
you will in the next lecture.